WONG, 2 IOs %

New York Philharmonic Archives

APRIL 1959

NATIONAL HONORS VOTED THE PHILHARMONIC AND BERNSTEIN

Honors, national and international, are
being heaped upon the Philharmonic and
its Music Director for their contributions
to music, to television, to radio, to edu-
cation, to international relations, and, as
the King of Siam is reported to have said,
“et cetera, et cetera, et cetera.”

Sixty-two national civic organizations
voted the awarding of the Thomas Alva
Edison Mass Media Award to the New
York Philharmonic’s Young People’s
Concerts as the best television offering
for children. Four hundred and sixty-five
newspaper editors and critics voted the
Radio-TV Daily All-American Award to
the Philharmonic’s CBS-Radio Network
Broadcasts as the “best musical show on
radio” in 1959. Sigma Alpha Iota, na-
tional honorary music fraternity repre-
senting 600,000 members, chose the
CBS-TV presentation of the New York
Philharmonic for the “finest video series
in the serious music field.”

The Philharmonic, Leonard Bernstein, and CBS-
TV, shown here in rehearsal session, are win-
ning one national honor after another for their
television programs. Typical of national press
comment was the New York Times statement
on February 23, 1959, “There is no reason why
it should not be said: One of the best things
that ever happend to television is Leonard
Bernstein.”

Leonard Bernstein’s awards have been
too many to enumerate. Among recent
recognitions was his receiving the Insti-
tute of International Education’s Dis-
tinguished Service Award. Vice-President
Nixon, in making the presentation in
Washington on behalf of the Institute,
stated, “I will say that having visited
some of the countries that he (Bernstein)
also visited, the trip that he and the Phil-
harmonic Orchestra took to South Amer-
ica could not have been more successful.
And in speaking of our great musical
organizations, there is certainly none in
the country that is more qualified as
being an American export type because
of the character of its conductor.”

His winning the Sylvania Television
Award was one of a long list of tele-
vision awards earned by the Philhar-
monic’s Music Director, a list including
two Emmys from the Academy of Tele-
vision Arts and Sciences. Among other
1958 awards were the Alice M. Ditson
Award; the Citation of the American
Society of Composers, Authors and Pub-
lishers; and the Citation of the American
Jewish Congress.

Vice-President Richard M. Nixon presents the
Institute of International Education’s Distin-
guished Service Award to Leonard Bernstein at
a dinner at the Mayflower Hotel in Washington
on January 30. In the center is Grayson Kirk,
President of Columbia University and Chairman
of IIE’s Board of Trustees.

AMYAS AMES THANKS FRIENDS AT GRACIE MANSION TEA

“This has been a season to be proud
of,” Amyas Ames, General Chairman of
the Friends stated in a brief speech at
the Friends tea at Gracie Mansion on
March 16, “and on behalf of the Or-
chestra and lovers of music everywhere,
I say thanks to our Friends for their in-
valuable contribution toward making it a
reality.”

“The New York Philharmonic, by its
very nature, can operate only with the
support of its Friends. The Orchestra,
under the direction of Mr. Bernstein, is
more self-sufficient than most other or-
chestras in this country, but even so it
has needed approximately $250,000 in
contributions to complete this year’s pro-
gram.

“Why is this so? We have been play-
ing to packed halls; the Orchestra has
been on television sponsored by Lincoln

Motors; the royalties from the sale of
records have been good. It is because
a symphony orchestra, composed of 106
musicians, must present new programs
each week. Also, its educational work—
like the Young People’s Concerts na-
tionally broadcast on television—calls for
extra rehearsals. (Its concerts for school
children are played to a whole house of
50-cent seats.) It is basic to the operation
of a fine orchestra that the better the
musicians, the more diverse the music
which it plays; and the more educational
work it undertakes, the more financial
support it must have.

“So the Friends play a most important
role. A part of the excellence of the
music that our orchestra is bringing to
its national audience is the creation of
the Friends. It is their generosity that

(Continued on page 2)

