QUAR
FRIENDS OF THE PHILHARMONIC
NOTES
VOL. 2 NO. 2
APRIL 1959
NATIONAL HONORS VOTED THE PHILHARMONIC AND BERNSTEIN
Honors, national and international, are
Leonard Bernstein's awards have been
being heaped upon the Philharmonic and
too many to enumerate. Among recent
its Music Director for their contributions
recognitions was his receiving the Insti-
to music, to television, to radio, to edu-
tute of International Education's Dis-
cation, to international relations, and, as
tinguished Service Award. Vice-President
the King of Siam is reported to have said,
Nixon, in making the presentation in
Washington on behalf of the Institute,
"et cetera, et cetera, et cetera."
stated, "I will say that having visited
Sixty-two national civic organizations
some of the countries that he (Bernstein)
voted the awarding of the Thomas Alva
also visited, the trip that he and the Phil-
Edison Mass Media Award to the New
harmonic Orchestra took to South Amer-
ica could not have been more successful.
York Philharmonic's Young People's
And in speaking of our great musical
Concerts as the best television offering
organizations, there is certainly none in
for children. Four hundred and sixty-five
the country that is more qualified as
newspaper editors and critics voted the
being an American export type because
Radio-TV Daily All-American Award to
of the character of its conductor."
the Philharmonic's CBS-Radio Network
Broadcasts as the "best musical show on
His winning the Sylvania Television
radio" in 1959. Sigma Alpha Iota, na-
Award was one of a long list of tele-
tional honorary music fraternity repre-
vision awards earned by the Philhar-
monic's Music Director, a list including
senting 600,000 members, chose the
two Emmys from the Academy of Tele-
CBS-TV presentation of the New York
vision Arts and Sciences. Among other
Philharmonic for the "finest video series
Vice-President Richard M. Nixon presents the
1958 awards were the Alice M. Ditson
Institute of International Education's Distin-
in the serious music field."
Award; the Citation of the American
guished Service Award to Leonard Bernstein at
Society of Composers, Authors and Pub-
a dinner at the Mayflower Hotel in Washington
on January 30. In the center is Grayson Kirk,
lishers; and the Citation of the American
President of Columbia University and Chairman
Jewish Congress.
of IIE's Board of Trustees.
AMYAS AMES THANKS FRIENDS AT GRACIE MANSION TEA
"This has been a season to be proud
Motors; the royalties from the sale of
of," Amyas Ames, General Chairman of
records have been good. It is because
the Friends stated in a brief speech at
a symphony orchestra, composed of 106
the Friends tea at Gracie Mansion on
musicians, must present new programs
BS
March 16, "and on behalf of the Or-
each week. Also, its educational work-
chestra and lovers of music everywhere,
like the Young People's Concerts na-
I say thanks to our Friends for their in-
tionally broadcast on television-calls for
valuable contribution toward making it a
extra rehearsals. (Its concerts for school
reality."
children are played to a whole house of
"The New York Philharmonic, by its
50-cent seats.) It is basic to the operation
very nature, can operate only with the
of a fine orchestra that the better the
support of its Friends. The Orchestra,
musicians, the more diverse the music
under the direction of Mr. Bernstein, is
which it plays; and the more educational
The Philharmonic, Leonard Bernstein, and CBS-
more self-sufficient than most other or-
work it undertakes, the more financial
TV, shown here in rehearsal session, are win-
chestras in this country, but even so it
support it must have.
ning one national honor after another for their
has needed approximately $250,000 in
"So the Friends play a most important
television programs. Typical of national press
contributions to complete this year's pro-
role. A part of the excellence of the
comment was the New York Times statement
gram.
music that our orchestra is bringing to
on February 23, 1959, "There is no reason why
"Why is this so? We have been play-
its national audience is the creation of
it should not be said: One of the best things
that ever happend to television is Leonard
ing to packed halls; the Orchestra has
the Friends. It is their generosity that
Bernstein."
been on television sponsored by Lincoln
(Continued on page 2)
FRIENDS OF THE PHILHARMONIC
113 West 57 Street, New York 19, N. Y.