s
THE NEW YORK TIMES, SUNDA’

Why Isan

| Outdoor
Concert

Like'a Tax
Rebate?

By DAVID HUNT

vmmer is the season of sur-

plus. Even in belt-tightened

New York, the slightly re-

duced horn of plenty pours

forth extra daylight, inddo-

ence, chlorophyll, and club
soda. Most people, save those helplessly
bogged in the Puritan ethic, feel that we
have earned a good time. We expect one
from nature and our neighbors; from
the city and Exxon; from merciful
breezes and our own pasts. We emerge
in various conditions of fortune from
condominium, triplex, and summer sub-
let, warily trusting that nature is still
bountiful and entertainment cheap. In
case they are not, we have learned how
to cater our own sensibilities, to catt
along the paraphernalia of our favorite
hedonisms. The largest number of culti-
vated pleasure seekers can be found in
the city parks, lolling in states of
amused intolerance or Babylonian satis-
faction at those headiest, historic and
least expensive of summer gambols—

autdoor concerts.
e

An outdoor concert is rather like a tax
rebate. Neither are necessities, nor of
intrinsic value, The one cannot make a
poor man rich any mote than the other
can turn a dog into a music lover. But
they can be spent lightly, in comforting
largesse, with slight regard for conse-
quence. And the concerts, if not the eva-
nescent rebates, produce one of the most
highly prized effects in American life—
they make us feel better about our~
selves.

‘When else can we sit in Central Park
after sunset, free from the dread of
knavery and harm? The safety in the
throng of one’s fellows and the quite
‘wonderful spells cast by certain kinds of

David Hunt writes frequently about
classical music.

jATION/June 11, 197

INDIGENOUS MUSIC/ Nat Hentoff

oe

music when heard in the open air pro-
mote a general welfare and insure a do-
mestic tranquility that are beyond
platoons of police and armies of social
workers. The music becomes a kind of
trusted bodyguard. In its noisy,
protective thrall, we begin to reclaim
what is ours—peace, prosperity and
temporary happiness. The good feeling
is sometimes so pervasive that no one
‘minds even when the national anthem is
played.

Particularly on an evening in Sheep
‘Meadow, when the Philharmonic has en-
gaged a fireworks display as guest art-
ist, the crowds are huge, motley, good-
humored and vastly diverting. There
are nannies, weary from victory over
their Fifth Avenue charges; lovers of all
descriptions; people who still work 40
hours each week, in many cases actu-
ally accompanied by their own children;
friends whose company one has shunned
all winter; and great gaggles of tourists,

ome perhaps trying for a place in the

‘Guinness Book of World Records.”

e

Finding one’s self alone in a cast of
100,000 can lead to some very melan
ccholy reflections, As music is recreation
and not self-help, go with a group large
enough to have a game of “Authors” or
sing the Sextet from “Lucia.” Go early,
asa fine vantage point is of importance,
‘Actual seats must be brought along. Ei-
ther camp stools or sedan chairs are ap-
propriate. The expectation of entertain-
ing new friends is a happy attraction
here, especially if you have lost some of
the old ones to Westhampton summers,
divorce or Joan Crawford reruns,

(On one voluptuous night last season,
the then unopposed Abraham Beame,
who is nothing if not grateful, rose in
prelude to express obligatory gratitude.
‘A reckless aide had advised the Mayor
to dally with the muses. ‘'Someone—
who was it?—once said, ‘The God of
music dwelleth out of doors’,” To which
an ungenerous but ready wit shouted
back: “Avery Fisher." Whether music
still has any gods may be a moot point,
and their addresses are anybody's
guess. But there are minor deities hang-
ing about, Choose one and indulge.
Roast beef and ale serve Beethoven
well, though perhaps Ravel and Stravin-
sky need saumon mousse and Pouilly
Fuisse. The picnic supper should not be
too humble, lest you wind up coveting
thy neighbor's paté, nor too lavish, as
there are spongers everywhere.

‘The music itself is from the standard
repertory. Very, very standard, The
general rule is to offer nothing too long,
too soft or too recent. Familiarity,
though, may be a boon, as there can be

Continuegpn Page 19

Outdoor Concerts

Continued from Page 17

many distractions—varking, vapors of

marijuana, and airlines that will not
schedule flights to pass over between
movements. Summer audiences, how-
ever, bear these irritations with ease.
Otherwise, they would not show up each
season in such Malthusian increase.

The Philharmonic and Met concerts
employ a portable stage, which can hold
all the performers, a conductor with a
major ego, and an ark full of dignitaries
nicely. Each of the loudspeakers could
house a branch of Bloomingdale's and is,
fed enough watts to cook every break-
fast in Yonkers. Their possible malfunc-
tion can shriek like a population explo-
sion, but at a respectful distance, they
do project the duration and intensity of
sound a very long way. Though this ma-
chine can be perceived as a stereo set
for doomsday, yet it does help to supply
details that would otherwise be the vic-
tims of chance and desperation.

There is no admission charge to any of
the more than 40 concerts listed below
and if none of these gracious and unflap-
pable rituals can tempt you away from
more serious business, it would be a
pity. For life is short, music too long,
and nothing can remain free for very
much longer.

Two of Giacomo Puce
during operas, ‘Tosca’ and “La Boh-
éme” are the repertory for the Metro-
politan Opera’s 11th season of park
formances. The cast for Tosca’ in-
cludes Gilda Cruz-Romo in the title role,
Giuseppe Giacomini as Cavaradossi,
Louis Quilico as Scarpia, and Richard
Best as the Sacristan. Richard Woitach
will conduct all performances, save the
one in Sheep Meadow, June 14. The
others are: June 17, Prospect Park,
Brooklyn; June 22, Van Cortland Park,
Bronx; and June 25, Eisenhower Park,
Nassau County.

Leona Mitchell and Dorothy Kirsten
will sing Mimi in “La Bohéme,” John
Alexander, Rodolfo, William Walker
and Ryan Edwards, Marcello, and Je-
rome Hines and Justino Diaz, Colline.
Jan Behr will conduct. The dates ar:
June 15, Clove Lakes Park, Staten Is-
land; June 18, Cunningham Park, Hol-
lis, Queens; June 21, Sheep Meadow;

and June 24, Marine Park, Brooklyn. All
performances are ‘concert versions’
and each begins at 8:30 P.M.

The New York Grand Opera, a com-
pany of less glamour and polish than its
poshier colleagues, is, nevertheless, a
spirited and ambitious one. This year it
will give, in the Central Park Mall, four
favorite operas, each with staging and
costumes: Verdi's “La Traviata,” July
7; Puccini's “Madama Butterfly,” July
14; Verdi's “Rigoletto,” July 21, and
Rossini's “Barber of Seville,” Aug. 4.
Vincent LaSelva, the company’s direc-
tor, will conduct. All the operas will be
repeated again in August in Nassau
County. Casts and dates will be an-
nounced when they are set.

Three generations of —_ family
philanthropy haye sustained one of the
city’s oldest continuing concert series.

‘The rule: nothing
too long, too soft or
too recent.’

‘The remaining concerts of the Naum-
burg Orchestra, each on Sunday after-
noon at 5 in the Central Park Mall, are
as follows: July 3, The Empire Brass
Quintet in works by Stravinsky, Bach,
Gershwin and Friedrich; July 31,
Hamao Fujiwara, violinist, will play the
Glazunov Concerto and Saint-Saéns
“Rondo Capriccioso,” and. Jacques
Singer will lead the Naumburg Orches-
tra inthe Dvorak Symphony No. 8; Sept.
4 William Mount-Burke will conduct the
Light Opera of Manhattan's concert ver-
sion of Gilbert and Sullivan’s “Pirates
of Penzance,”

One of our firmest links to a time per-
haps less self-conscious than our own is
the series of Goldman Band Concerts
sponsored by Guggenheim Concerts and
given, from June 22 through July 31, in
Damrosch Park in Lincoln Center on
Wednesdays at 8:30. One finds an older
than usual audience here, one that per-
haps prefers American life in one of its
previous disguises. A time when the
curious, easeful delights offered by

NEWSDAY. THURSDAY, JUNE 16, 1977

the arts/ ||

‘The jam session was a freewheeling
tourney of kindred though ceaselessly
competitive spirits. At first, it was large-
ly an after-hours institution. Their regu-
lar work done, musicians from various
combos and bands would gather and
play into the light. Like the gunfighters
of the Old West, reigning style setters
were continually being challenged and,
once in a while, a young apprentice
would end the long night as part of the
establishment, having at least temporar-
ily conquered an idol. Some heroes were
never blown down. There is no record,
for instance, that Louis Armstrong was
ever overcome, even for a night.
Gradually, the concept of the jam
session was extended to allow the public
in on occasion. Clubs would bill special
sessions, on Sunday afternoons or on a
slow weekday night, at which imported
horns would vie with local improvisers.
And then Eddie Condon put the jam
Session on a concert stage. The ambiance
wasn't quite as buoying without booze
(that is, the audience didn’t have booze),
but there was still an abundance of un-
predictability. Jazz, of course, is always
supposed to be unpredictable, but regu-

toured regularly here and in Europe into
the late 1950s, varied widely in quality
depending on the roster during any

lar bands sometimes would settle into
regular licks. At a jam session, however,
it was hard for a player to avoid spon-
taneity, for good or ill. :

The nationalization of the jam session
came in the middle-1940s when Norman
Granz, a passionate, ambitious fan, set
up his first Jazz at the Philharmonic
troupe. Granz's idea couldn't have been
more basic. Hire a string of name horns,
an ecumenical rhythm section with a lot
of stamina, and perhaps a vocalist. Then
let them have at one another, night after
night, in large concert halls throughout
the nation. No arrangements were neces-
sary, no conductor, and certainly no re-
hearsal time, Not that Granz skimped on
money. Into the present, he is regarded
by hordes of jazz players as the best-
paying and
neurs. Or,
“When you go with Norman, you always
go first-class.” But it is temperamentally,
rather than economically, that Granz has
always been impatient with excess. He
likes his jazz lean and brawling, and
that’s what Jazz at the Philharmonic
was most of the time.

The Granz jazz

fairest of all jazz entrepre-
as Roy Eldridge has put it,

shoot-outs, which

Dizzy proving here that they can sta
up to their musical progenitors but ther
is continually unfinished rivalry betwee}

IN SHORT
The neighbor
Philharmonie

In an unusual gesture of neighborly
support, the New York Philharmonic
will present a benefit concert for the
Long Island Symphony Nov. 23 at the
Calderone Concert Hall, Hempstead.
Erich Leinsdorf will conduct the pro-
gram, which will include the Bizet-
Shchedrin “Carmen” ballet suite and
Brahms’ Violin Concerto in D. Itzhak
Perlman will be the violin soloist. It will
be the first of only two performances of
the program next season by the Philhar-
monic, the other being part of the or-
chestra’s regular subscription series in
Avery Fisher Hall Nov. 26. In making
the announcement, Esther Pivnick,
president of the Long Island Symphon:
said, "We welcome the New York Phi
harmonic and appreciate the cooperation
between neighboring symphonies.” Car-
Jos Moseley, president of the New York
Philharmonic, said, “We are pleased to
be a part of this special effort to aid our
friends of the Long Island Symphony.”
‘The proceeds from the performance will
be used to help the Long Island Sympho-
ny with its 1977-78 budget, estimated at
$330,000 by general manager Roger
Malfatti. “If everything goes well, we

THE NEW YORK TIMES,

Richard Franko Goldman's splendid
band will be totally out of vogue should
beunthinkable.

The New York Housing Authority
Symphony Orchestra, a startling amal-
gam of amateur and professional
players of many racial backgrounds,
will play, pot-luck fashion from its
repertory, in Manhattan parks as fol-
lows: July 11, City Hall; July 19, Fort
‘Tryon; July 30, Damrosch Park; Aug. 7,
Central Park Mall; and June 29 in Union
‘Square. The orchestra is led by Karl
Hampton Porter and Darrold Hunt.

Finally, the New York Philharmonic
will offer three programs on 12 different
evenings throughout the city. André
Kostelanetz conducts Tchaikovsky's
Sixth Symphony, Ravel’s “‘Daphnis and
Chloe”” Suite No. 2, and Offenbach’s
“Gaité Parisienne," accompanied by a
display of fireworks, but only on the
Sheep Meadow evening (Aug. 2). The re-
maining dates for this program are Aug.
3, Prospect Park, Brooklyn; Aug. 4,
Clove Lake Park, Staten Island; Aug. 6,
Cunningham Park, Queens; and Aug,
23, Van Cortland Park, Bronx.

Sarah Caldwell, the lady of Boston
fame, will do Strauss’s “Don Juan,”
Berlioz’s “Symphonie Fantastique,"
and the Bruch Violin Concerto with con-
certmaster Rodney Friend as soloist on
Aug. 9, Sheep Meadow; Aug. 10, Van
Cortland Park, Bronx; Aug. 12; Eisen-
hower Park, Nassau County; and Aug.
13, Crocheron Park, Queens.

Erich Leinsdorf, now conductor of the
Radio Symphony Orchestra of West Ber-
lin and a frequent podium guest, will
conduct Beethoven's Symphony No. 1,
Wagner's Overture and Venusberg
Music from ‘Tannhauser,” Strauss’s
“Dance of the Seven Veils” from ‘Sa-
lome” and the Haydn Trumpet Concer-
to, with Gerard Schwarz as soloist on
Aug. 16, Sheep Meadow; Aug. 17, Botan-
ical Garden, Bronx; Aug. 19, Eisen-
hower Park, Nassau County; Aug. 20,
Cunningham Park, Queens; and Aug.
22, Marine Park, Brooklyn. a

THE NEW YORK TIMES, MONDAY, JUNE 1

Geraldine O’Grady’s Violin Sings

As a violinist who was born in Ir
land, schooled in Paris and was a rec
alist in Brazil, Geraldine O'Grady drew
on all three of her musical  back-
grounds for an unusually interesting
and well-played program Saturday af-
temoon in Carnegie Recital Hall.

Miss O'Grady opened her concert
with the Brazilian composer Villa Lo-
bos’s First Sonata. Although the piece
may be a trifle formless in its impro-
vigatory thapsodic flights, the music
did’ provide a fine vehicle to show
off the violinist’s uncommonly full,
nich, singing tone; her unerringly accu-
rate bowing technique, letter-perfect
intonation and finely developed musical
instincts,

From Ireland, Miss O'Grady chose a
‘sofiata by E. J. Moeran, a strong, boldly
forthright work of considerable individ-
ual character in a mildly dissonant con-
temporary idiom. Again the perform-
shee was superlative for its coloristic
variety, rhythmic élan and technical
Brecision.

Turning to France, Mi
played the Sonata No.
y the late Jean Martinon. She
tained its long, muscular phrases with
extraordinary tension and directional
logic.

The concluding Franck Sonata, warm-
ly committed and interpreted with genu-
ine virtuoso flair, reinforced the impres-
sion that Miss O'Grady is an artist of
the first rank. David Garvey proved to
be a reliable and companionable partner
at the piano, ‘

O'Grady
for solo violin

PereR G. Davis
Kostelanetz Ends
Promenade Series

Andre Kostelanetz may not be the
World’s greatest conductor, but the
seties of three Promenade concerts by
"Fe New York Philharmonic at Avery

THE NEW YORK TIMBS, WEDNESDAY, JUNE 15, 1977

Atonal Music Enlists Science’s Aid

By BOYCE RENSBERGER

The growth of new forms of serious
music, compositions that strike some
traditionalists as so chaotic and atonal
that they seem hardly to be music at
all, has produced a widening chasin be-
tween composers seeking new sounds
and performers who find it difficult or
impossible to play the music.

To reconcile the two groups, some of
the leading exponents of such music have
teamed up with scientists to do research
on the limits of human ability to cute
the extremely precise and difficult

maneuyers demanded by many newer

compositions.

Among the best known composers of
such avant-garde music are Milton Bab-
bitt, Elliot Carter, and John Cage.

“We want to have the data to be able
to say to the composers, ‘You're writing
music that’s humanly impossible to play,”
or, on the other hand, to develop new
instructional methods so that we can
teach performers to play this kind of
music,” said Paul Zukofsky, a concert
violinist who is a leading exponent of
the new music. Mr. Zukofsky is the presi-
dent of Musical Observations Inc., a non-
profit corporation that does research in
this area.

Coordinated Timing

One reason much new music is so dif-
ficult to play is that it often calls for
highly precise timing by individual per-
formers, each playing at a different
tempo. An extreme example is in an
orchestral work by Karlheinz Stockhau:
en called “Gruppen,” or “Groups.” It calls
for 13 instruments to make 13 isolated
sounds at 13 different times within the

} space of 375 milliseconds—just over a
third of a second.

Other compositions ask performers to

| vary rapidly the levels of loudness or
rates of attack with which they play, the
| specifications changing note by note.

| In a review in the New York Times,
Harold C, Schonberg once described a
typical example of such music, Mr, Bab-

bitt's “Relata II,” as “one of those dense,
incredibly complicated, atonal, athematic,
arhythmic pieces." After the wor!
world premier in 1969 by Leonard Bern-
stein and the New York Philharmonic Or-
chestra, it was cheered and booed. It has
seldom been played since.

The cellist in the Juilliard String Quar-
tet in 1973 called a Carter composition
the hardest work the group had ever at-
tempted. He said that to play it the quar-
tet had to unlearn everything it had
learned to play traditional forms of
music.

‘To Develop New Methods

“We need tools to be able to play this
music,” Gerard Schwarz, a trumpeter,
told musicians and scientists at a recent
symposium on the “psychophysics of
musical performance” at Montclair State
College in New Jersey. Mr, Schwarz said
that musicians had a responsibility to per-
form what composers write and, if neces:
sary, to develop new methods of playing
that would enable them to do so.

Mr, Schwarz and Mr. Zukofsky are
directors of the Center for Contemporary
Performance Practice, another group’ ad-
dressing such problems. Pierre Boulez,
former music director of the New York
Philharmonic and now affiliated with the
French Institut de Recherche et de Coor-
dination Acoustique Musique, is artistic
adviser to the center and participated in
the symposium.

Although research in this area js in
its infancy, it has already disclosed, for
example, that highly skilled musicians
make substantial errors in estimating the
duration of very brief intervals such as
a 32d note. More interestingly and for-
tunately for music, the researchers) have
found that all the musicians tested—a
violinist, a flutist, a cellist and a conduc
tor—made the same errors in the same
degrees. By sharing the same error, the
musicians are still able to play together.

Collaborating with Mr. Zukofsky are
several scientists from Bell Laboratories
of Murray Hill, N.J. They include Ronald

Fisher Hall that ended Saturday night

ill gave a good deal of pleasure. The
Teason was gocd music juxtaposed with
some artfulness, a good soloist and the
inherent ambience of the Promenades,

‘The progrem was a fairly meaty one.
It led off with Prokofiev's eversdelight:
ful “Classical” Symphony and_contin-
ued with Saint-Saéns’s Piano Concerto
No. 4, Liszt’s “Les Préludes," a Victor
Herbert medley and Tchaikovsky's “Ca-
priccio Italie,

Of all this, the Prokofiev, Liszt and
Tchaikovsky are fairly standard items,
though no less worthy for that, The
Saint-Saéns is relatively rarer, and
welcome, At tris stage there can be no
doubt that Saint-Saéns was a second-
rate composer. Yet there is still great
charm in his music, a delicate bal-
ancing of Gailic cl ‘icism with the
more urgent colors of a German in-
fluence.

The uncredited Herbert arrangement
strung seven of his best-known tunes
together in a way that was totally
predictable but still pleasant to hear.
‘The Promenades are sponsored by the
Victor Herbert Foundation; even apart
from that, the music is worth hearing
occasionally.

‘The soloist for the night was Ivan
Davis, who comported himself very
well indeed in the Saint-Saéns, This
wasn't the most. precisely Gallic _per-
formance imaginable, but most of the
imprecisions and stylistic heavy-hand-
edness came from the orchestra, not
the soloist. In quiet effects—the more
sinuous parts of the Tchaikovsky, for
instance—Mr. Kostelanetz and the or-
chestra were often appealing, and the
Herbert swept by with commendable
verve. It was just that there was too
much loud playing, and in the louder
passages the textures sounded coarse
and uncontrolled,

JOHN ROcKWELL

L. Knoll, Saul Sternberg, Mark Y, Liber
man, Joseph P. Olive and Max V, Ma
thews, Ordinarily, they do research on
acoustics, advanced telephone equipment
and other communications systems,

A typical experiment goes like this: 4
musician listens to. clicks presented
through headphones. An electronic device
spaces the clicks precisely 125 milisee:
onds apart, equivalent to 2 32d note in
largo tempo of 60 beats a minute

The musician is asked to tap an electri-
cal key to produce clicks at the same
tempo. The musicians consistently
overestimate, making their clicks about
160 milliseconds apart while insisting
they are producing the same tempo
(In another experiment, musicians con-
fistently understimated ‘the duration of
time infervals. In this case, subjects were
given sets of clicks at two tempos—75
milliseconds apart and 135 milliseconds
apart—and were asked which was closer
to an eighth of a beat (equivalent to 125
milliseconds or a 32d note).

5 les as Far Away

Consistently, they said the 75 millisec-
ond interval was closer when, in fact,
it was five times as far from the objective
than the alternative choice.

‘The implications of these findings are
not entirely clear, Mr. Zukofsky said, but
he noted that the National Science Foun-
dation had awarded him a grant to con-
tinue the research. One possibility is that
such phenomena account for pari of what
is called the human element that distin-
guishes a performance-by a human musi-
cian from one by an electronic synthe-
sizer.

Other experiments include finding out
what elements of a sound cause listeners
to group them into certain patterns, For
example, six nominally equal notes
played at equal intervals can be perceived
as three twos or two threes, depending
on extremely minute differences in ti
bre, attack rate and other factors. Mahy
new composers want to be able to specify
these factors with precision.

Hawkins and Young. Diametrically op|
posed in style and temperament, the:
had long dominated the tenor saxophone
Hawkins with his robust tone and
pansively harmonic imagination and!
Young, with a more airy sound and al
more lithe, quicksilver conception. Haw-
kins’s beat, moreover, had enormous]
depth and force; Young's was more sub-
tle, supple and, for that matter, more |
modern. One can hear, for example, the
debt Bird owed Pres in sound and in
how to play with time.

There are other, almost forgotten, im-

given season and also depending on how
some of the gladiators felt on @ particu-
lar night. And as might be expected,
given the size and pride of the talents
involved, some evenings were blazingly
historical.

should clear about $20,000 on the con-
cert,” Malfatti said. He added that while
the Philharmonic is charging an undis-
closed fee for its services, a financial ar-
rangement had been worked out so that
the concert will be profitable for the
Long-Island Symphony. Ticket prices
will be announced later next month,
with priority given to Long Island Sym-
phony subscribers, Malfatti said. The
Philharmonie has already announced
that it will perform two free concerts in
August at Eisenhower Park, East Mead-
provisers at hand, most notably alto jj ow, under the aegis of the Nassau Coun-

:
ider the lights up ‘Rugs

a honist Willie Si \—a clear-toned, j ty Office of Cultural Development and : :

SeCLitcin iuricall SwineeoMnRLeNwanlinct Department of Recreation and Parks gone, Boulez realized that the Rug Con-

“modern” by the standards to come but —Bob Micklin By Bob Micktin eerta could be programed immediately
1 a indicate thirt " Mowing the Promenade series. An
Ge ee Mag clise ain masse In 1073, when Pierre Boulez thought With tickets sold at $9, $4, and $5, he
categories. Also now in the limbo of of getting the New York Philharmonic correctly figured that the Rugs, as they
jazz history is Howard McGhee, a trum- more intimately acquainted with ordi- quickly were called, would draw signifi-

Ecce pt ctoaine memotonsliipreenieH nary New Yorkers, he came up with the ant attendance from young people.
who was both of the swing era and the idea of Rug Concerts. Well, the Rugs began their fourth sea-
new language, but who somehow never j ina hp idee Wes simple: Instead of hay. sn last ‘night, in reconstructed Avery
quite reached an audience of a size] ated as usual in the ‘Fisher (nee Philharmonic) Hall. But
commensurate with his distinctive imagi- | m, the orchestra seats would be OW, the orchestra is back on stage, and
Ey rer and Eats Aa estas ue piel seats are overlaid with

A Bes See DN EE, latforms on which’people could sit or new, carpeted platforms.

< There wil Te ia eee spravl as they pleased. The orchestra _ The series, which extends through
Berueeertaurmameats confdibe, And now eee al in front of the stage, so that June 26, con: ts of eight different con-
ES ea ree em cuyevansinvia additional people could occupy the stage. certs. Last night's opener was conducted
jazz, he may put together another troupe icket prices were lowered, with the by Erich Leinsdorf, and featured the
of hot gunslingers for the 1970s. o Most expensive seats in the balconies Philharmonic's principal cellist, Lorne
where normal seating was retained, Munroe, as soloist in Benjamin Britten's

Philharmonic Hall was prepared for “Symphony for Cello and Orchestra,”
Such an arrangement. Years ago, Andre ~ This is a problematical piece of music,
Kostelanetz inaugurated the orchestra's one which creats esthetic tensions and a
annual series of springtime Promenade feeling of expectancy in the mind and
Concerts, for which the orchestra seats ears of the listener—an expectancy

NEWSDAY, FRIDAY, JUNE 17, 1877

music review
Britten brilliance

John Lewis, who later became musical
director of the Modern Jazz Quartet, re-
calls a JATP evening on January 29,
1946, during which a number of notable
swing-era improvisers were jousting with
Charlie “Bird” Parker, the raffish ring
leader of the new “bop” forces, “Bird,”
says John Lewis, “made a blues out of
Lady Be Good, That solo made old men
out of everyone on stage that night.

‘There is some hyperbole there, but
Bird's solo was indeed a vivid witness-
ing to the changing of the jazz order.
‘And now it can be heard again as part
of a two-volume reissue set on Verve—
—Bird and Pres: The ’46 Concerts/ Jazz
at the Philharmonic :

Astutely selected by Bob Hurwitz,
these high points of JATP’s first year
encompass such legends, then as well as
now, as Lester Young (“Pres"), Cole-
man Hawkins, Dizzy Gillespie, Buck
Clayton and the aforementioned Bird,

The music is absorbing on its own,
and also for its intensely evocative his-
toric overtones. Not only are Bird and

are removed and tables placed in that
section of the 1. Wine and other
drinks are served until concert time.

Since the orchestra seats were already

which is infrequently resolved. It is not]
in traditional symphonic style. The cello}
dominates the piece as a solo yoice, and
the orchestra serves as a kind of Greek
chorus, commenting on the soloist’s role.
The music is dissonant and suggestive of
serialism although there is no firm, ser-
ialistic writing in the score.

Britten was a brilliant orchestrator,
and this “symphony” employs a fascinat-
ing variety of tonal colors, pointillistic
instrumental and rhythmic effects, and
motifs which change in placement but
not in basic construction. Munroe played
expertly, and Leinsdorf maintained
overall orchestral equilibrium with skill
and insight.

Also on the program were Mozart’
eratic overture to "The Impres
perky bit of fluff suited to starting a
concert, and Handel's familiar “Water
Music” Suite No. 1. Leinsdorf paced the
Handel suite too cautiously. After all,
this was really the pop music of the Brit.
ish aristocracy in the early 1700s. In
fact, I suspect that last night’s perfor-
mance would have been too refined even
for King George L. an

op-
ri0,” a

Itzhak Perlman

