MUSIC

New Life in
the Bronx

By Leighton Kerner

‘The Bronx is not all burned-out blocks
of no man’s land occasionally visited by
politicians on ghoul-trips. Even in the
South Bronx, where the devastation is
concentrated, people are busy trying to
keep their cultures and some kind of art
alive and growing. The North Bronx,
around Bedford Park Boulevard, where
little hills and big trees give a feeling of
substantial, middle-class suburbia, must
have had an easier cultural time of it, but
that shouldn't take away from the ac
complishment of the Lehman College Cen
ter for the Performing Arts, which opened
at least some of its facilities at the end of
September and in doing so contributed to
what might eventually turn out to be a
healthy decentralization of music, drama,
and dance in this city. The Brooklyn
Academy of Music made the first such
might argue a
ert schedule this

attempt years ago one
century ago—and its co
season, to limit the discussion to music,

formidable challenge to
Brooklyn College’s season |
Queens College's
and the sparklingly at
tractive year-old pertorming-arts complex
at City College’s Hamilton Grange cam
pus, hard by the grave of Lewissohn Stadi
um, might already be a ghost for all the |
public can learn of what goes on there.
Therefore, an interborough pull to match
BAM’s is up to Lehman College, which
was the Bronxian annex of Hunter until it
achieved autonomy as a component of the
City University of New York.

‘The $50 million center's three buildings
house an art gallery, a library, a 2300-seat
concert hall, a 500-seat proscenium
theatre, an experimental theatre of flex-
ible capacity up to 200, and a 150-seat
recital room. The concert hall also accom-
modates opera and other music-theatre
productions, thanks to a hydraulically ad
justable orchestra pit that can hold 65
musicians.

So far, my only experience of the place
involves the concert hall, whose inaugural |
concert on September 28 was played by
the New York Philharmonic under Zubin
Mehta. Architects David Todd and Jan
Pokorny and acoustical consultant Ranger
Farrell produced a visually striking and
sonically serviceable auditorium. ‘The
well-raked orchestra seating and the face
front balcony provide everyone with a full
view that will be especially useful when
the hall becomes an opera or dance
theatre. And a fine, bold stroke is the
shape of the balcony, whose left side re-
mains high and back(as most balconies do)
but whose center jut8 forward section by
section and whose right side zooms down

Hooks like a
Manhattan

looks less interestin
downright sparse

Continued from page 92
Vivaldi was notable for giving the night its
most fun and brilliance, although it was
the only music that was not first-rate, I
| would ‘have preferred less sugar in the
Bach and Mozart, and, for once, I would
liked to have heard both soloists in the
Mozart play their tu/ti parts, as written,
nd not just the solos; much tension, 1
think, would have been added to the en-

like a ski-run, almost to the stage. The
immediate problem created for a sym-
phony orchestra by this exciting formation
is how to balance the instruments, partic-
ularly the brasses. Even in such an other-
wise exemplary auditorium as Boston's
Symphony Hall, overbearing brasses can
be a problem. Consider the aggravation
when Boston’s, or Avery Fisher Hall’s,
symmetry is unavailable

A friend in the rear-center of the
balcony enjoyed a fullness of sound at the
concert. Sitting in left-center orchestra
halfway back, which is a good place to
| judge clarity and blend in any decent hall,
I perceived both, but also a dryness that
recalled the famous aridity of NBC's Stu-
dio 8-H in the Toscanini era, In the case of
Lehman College’s hall, the fault probably
lies in the lowness of the ceiling over the
tage, as if one of Christopher Jaffee’s
traveling stage-boxes used in park con-
certs had been installed to cramp the
orchestra. And the matter is not improved
by another set of those possibly adjustable
acoustical panels that coat the skins of too
many failed auditoriums like leprosy

Nevertheless, the program proved that

| the Bronx is so far more fortunate in a new

concert hall than San Francisco is. ‘The
first half of the bill had music by two
Lehman faculty members, Ulysses Kay
and John Corigliano, and both scores had
heen composed to “sound.” Kay’s Mark-
ings, which the composer says was in
spired by the “ideas, doubts, and joys’
expressed in the late Dag Hammarskjold’s
hook of the same title, is a mood-piece
whose lyricism may not be creatively ad.
venturous but still holds the ear with its
intensity and pleases, it with its warm,
heautilully graded timbres. I've written in
detail about Corigliano’s Clarinet Con:
certo, which the original chief soloist
Stanley Drucker, once again played thrill
inyly, (I say “chief soloist” because Glen
Dicterow, the orchestra’s concertmaster,
sweetly played the solo passages—later
taken up even more eloquently by the
whole violin section—that mark the com-
poser’s tribute to his late father, John, Sr.,
who was the Philharmonic’s con-
certmaster during some of its most excit-
ing years.) But what made the neo-
romantic and virtuosic concerto especially
effective in the new hall were the finale’s
barrages of horns, trumpets, and a second
clarinet spread over the balcony, with mu-
sic built on a theme of that pioneer anti-
phonalist Giovanni Gabrieli. Then the
Bronx’s new concert hall rang exultantly

And while 8-H-itis got to Brahms’s Sec-
ond Symphony, there was at least Mehta’s
spontaneous-sounding rubato to freshen
page after page of this too often sloughed-
off music, and there was unflagging secur-
ity in the playing

Earlier that week, the Philharmonic
celebrated the 60th birthday (last July) of
one of its favorite visitors, Isaac Stern,
witha long, generous pension-fund benefit
concert of four concerti. Stern participated
in all four—with Itzhak Perlman in Bach's
Concerto for Two Violins, with Pinchas
‘Zukerman on viola for Mozart’s Sinfonia
concertante, with both of his Israeli pro-
teges in a Vivaldi Concerto in F Major for
‘Three Violins, and by himself (okay,
Mehta and the Philharmonic worked the
whole evening, too) in the Brahms. The
Continued on page 94

several years ago with the National Sym-
phony, obeyed Richard Strauss's instruc-
tions to join the orchestral cellos in Don
Quixote. The festivities, justifiably joyous
and duly televised live by PBS, were
almost dampened by Stern's often rough
tone and sometimes desperate-sounding
attacks in the Brahms (using the Joachim
cadenza, by the way), but the man had
been working mighty hard that night, and

sembles, as it was when Janos Starker,

SCRANTON, PA.

__——_ TRIBUNE
—D. 38,503—
NORTHEAST PA. METROPOLITAN AREA

Met star Lucian Pavrotti looked

NEW YORK Pa
varotti for President’

posters are
all over; of

for 100 others’ pensions at that: Ls

popping up Italian native Metopera

course that’s star Luciano Pavarotti
Who seems this year’s Ul.
timate Superstar: he was
by far the most popular
personality in the N.Y.C
Columbus Day parade
which featured such less
er mortals as two of the
presidential candidates.
‘The brand new Big Apple
space-age buses seem to
withstand graffiti-vandal-
izing — so far.. Fine ac
tion-sports artist Leroy
Neiman will “capture
you” in your favorite

labor stalemate at the Met taken place.
A taste of the might-have Met ects ete vice, sanariered
performer, particularly in the concluding “Libera

By BILL ZAKARIASEN

been.

The Manzoni Requiem has frequently been de-
scribed as Giuseppe Verdi's best opera, but in
Wednesday's New York Philharmonic Pension Fund
concert, it appeared that the Requiem was going to
be the only Verdi opera sung by Metropolitan Opera
soloists here in the foreseeable future. The Met is
locked out, but at least in the stellar solo quartet
provided, it gave the sell-out audience (and millions
who experienced it via simulcast) an inspiring and

Zubin Mehta,

LAE, Siidey. i Let ee, /

Coricert! Philharmonic ’“
Offers 3-Part Showcase

intoxicating taste of the Met season that might have

This is not meant to take away credit from the
superb work of the Westminster Choir or the Philhar-
monic’s inspired playing under the direction of
It was just that in the extended
standing ovation at the end, the biggest roars went to
the singers we have already missed too long—
soprano Montserrat Caballe, mezzo Bianca Berin|,
tenor Placido Domingo and bass Paul Plishka—all of
whom would be much in evidence kitty-corner across
Lincof Center Plaza had not the well-documented,

me,” in which her fabled high pianissimos ravished
‘the ear as much as her full-blown fortissimos in
chest. Berini, barring an occasional flutter, was
wonderously committed to text and note with a
perfect instrument to match. Domingo, singing with
a resplendance race even for him, made every phrase
seem a prayer in itself.

The Requiem will be digitally recorded by most of
these forces for Columbia in the next few days, with
the Agma Chorus of Musica Sacra replacing the
student Westminster group—so much for union
clout.

= would find a transcription for 10 power-

PETER G. DAVIS

]HETHER by accident or
design, last night’s New
York ‘Philharmonic pro-
gram conducted by Zubin
Mehta in Avery Fisher Hall seemed to
be planned as a three-part showcase.
At least that is how it looked on paper,
even if the results turned out to be
something less than spectacular.

‘The first item was a suite of dances
from “‘Danserye’” by the 16th-century

ful modern trumpets, horns and trom-
bones incongruously elephantine.

Even at that, much of the music's
charming qualities of line, rhythm and
color came through, even in this overin-
flated context. The Philharmonic's
brass section was obviously relishing
its moment in the sun and this music,
after all, was intended to be relished, |
by performers as well as byllisteners. |

‘One would think that Bartok's slash-
ing ‘Miraculous Mandarin’ Suite j

the Philharmonic

LEMING

Tchaikovsky, miniaturized
in a way that would haye

composer-music publisher Tylman
Susato, arranged by John Ives:
vehicle for the Philharmonic brasse:
Next came Bartok’s “Miraculous Man:
darin,” a virtuoso exercise to test the
mettle of a full symphony orchestra
and part of the Philharmonic's ongoing
centenary tribute to the composer. Fi-
nally there was Nathan Milstein play:
ing that perennial of the violin reperto-
ry, the Tchaikovsky Concerto,

For all that it was not much more
than a brief throat-clearer, the opening
Susatoisuite was the most interesting
entry of the evening. Orchestral con-
certs rarely offer music written before
1700 for the simple reason that little of
it suits today’s large halls and ensem-
bles. These tuneful, unpretentiously
light-hearted dances of 1551 are no ex-
ception and anyone who has heard
them played by period instruments

would be just Mr. Mehta's dish and he
certainly did encourage the orchestra
tomakea brave noise, Unfortunately it
was a disorganized, dishevelled noise
without the kind of razor-sharp attack,
diamond-hard sonority and gestural
precision this score needs to make its
full effec
Tchaikovsky Concerto was also loosely
knit and offhand as Mr. Mehta marked
time rather than shaping and control-
ling the progress of the music.

Of course there was Mr. Milstein, for
many years a formidable interpreter of
the Tchaikovsky warhorse, which he
endows with a patrician elegance and a
noble eloquence that erases all traces
of sentimentality from the score. He
may not command the notes with all
the virtuoso brilliance of yore, but his
technique is still quite miraculous and
his musical insights remain consis
tently stimulating

The accompaniment to the

THE NEW YORK TIMES, THURSDAY, OCTOBER 23, 1980

| Met Opera and Orchestra
‘Resume Negotiations

By JOHN ROCKWELL

morning between the Metropolitan
Opera andiitsionchestra, and continued
in the afternoon, leading to a sudden
hope that the dispute that has darkened
the nation’s leading opera company
might still be resolved.

Meetings resumed at the Doral Inn
after both sides had been called to-
gether by Wayne L. Horvitz, director of
the Federal Mediation and Conciliation
Service. I. Philip Sipser, lawyer for the
musicians, had said his side would not
return to the bargaining table without
some indication the Met was willing to
consider the “legitimacy” of the or-
chestra's proposal for a four-perform-
ance workweek.

Yesterday Mr. Sipser’s “we are talk-
ing” sounded guardedly optimistic; be-
fore, both sides had described the ses-
sions as little more’ than the presenta-
tion of incompatible demands.

The Met and the musicians refused
comment on the negotiations, in re-
sponse to a request by Mr. Horvitz. But
it was learned that the talks were be-
tween the Met and the musicians, and
not yet the other 16 unions that have

| a
| Negotiations resumed _ yesterday

contracts with the company. Tradition-
ally at the Met, it Hias been the orches-
tra that has set the pattern for the other
unions, and so far this year, the other
unions, although reportedly close to'@
settlement, have refused to sign until
they saw what theorchestra obtained.

The two sides hadinot met since talks
broke down Oct. 5, following President
Carter's request that Mr. Horvitz at-
tempt again tosettle the dispute.

On Sept. 29, The company canceled
its 1980-81 season, which had been
scheduled to begin Sept. 22. Before
that, it had locked out all its 1,900 em-
ployees before the beginning of the re-

jearsal period on Sept, 2, saying it
would not pay the $1 million rehearsal
costs when there was the threat of a
strike.

The principal issue this year has
been the orchestra's request for a four-
performance workweek. The orchestra
wishes'a reduction of one peformance
played by each musician a week, which
‘would bring its work schedule closer to
that of major symphony. orchestras.
The Met has steadfastly insisted it
could not afford the request, although
the orchestra has indicated it would be
willing to “pay for" the work reduction
by.accepting a'smaller wage increase.

suited Mendelssohn — it
was, in fact, so silky and
debonair in spots that
rhythmic articulation was
almost tossed awe
something I have never
heard from this artist be.
fore.

If you thought that her
oism was innate in this
piece, Milstein last night
seemed out to show other:
We ncon Wise. The trouble was
Dancery") by a i6th-cen Mehta didn't appear to be
tury German named TY paying much attention to
man Susato, and close peruano
with the Tehaikoysy Violin ae tS seers
Concerto with Nathan Mil- $74 PoP edtra with. a
stein as the soloist. It waS bravado that was in a dif
ather a grabbag PFO: ferent emotional key

pani sand sine eee ‘The Miraculous Manda.
ances of two major yin sounded —_underre
works Weis: SICH E- beateed aevunarded ihe
thee _q_ Kaleidoscope of rhythmic

Milstein | first player! shifts were _ negotiated
with the New ore this competently, of course, b
Da ate Rte the results were stiff. (
wasinthenatureot ahalf Gyent ran onto the nex
centenary celebration for © ee
him. He gave a markedly bas much shap
refined read the

York Philhar:
monic under Zubin Mehta
continued its ongoing ob

vance of Bartok's cen

nnial last night with a
performance of the Suite
from the ballet The Mirac
ulous Mand ‘The eve
ning opened with a suite of
six dances for brass instru
ments  (Danserye, oF

Jack O’Brian

Voice of Broadway

sports action — for
$35,000. That’s the offer-
ing price in the Merrill
Chase Galleries’ 1980
Christmas catalogue

Bert Bacharach, colum
nist, gentleman ‘and dad

to hit composer Burt, told
us with sad mien young
Burt and Angie Dickinson
now definitely will di-
vorce... The kids had the
happiest separation
we've evereéncountered.

The City of London's
analysis of the Big Ap-
ple’s “I Love New York”
promotion caused the
British pital to begin
spending $5,000,000. to

plenty — though with
wildly inflated prices as a
discouragement... The
Anderson-Lucey cask
chasing bash at the West
57th St. Sheffield Bldg.
added a midnight cap to
the cash-extraction: a
late-late indoor swim

The (N.Y. Philharmon:
ic’s symipHOnie tribute to
the late Andre Kos
telanetz was a lovely, un-
mawkish salute to one of
the greatest salesmen mu-
sie ever had... Leonard
Bernstein composed a
two-minute “toast” to
Kostelanetz which enjoy

ed a rare content: in its

brief 120 seconds it used
the late conductor's full
name’s six syllables for a
most unsual repeated
piece — witty, tender,
bombastic, almost comic
at mercurial moments.
Everyone from conductor
Zubin Mehta to the audi-
ence and orchestra mem-
bers was smiling, some
even laughing at the un
expectedly suitable trun-
cated salute to the
honoree in all of his musi
cal moods... So thun
derous its weleome, Zu.
bin Mehta brought
Bernstein to the podium
and forced the baton on
him for the deserved two-
minute repeat.

Aaron Copland narrat-
ed his own “Lineoln Por-
trait” which Kostelanetz
so correctly had commis-

presidential on Columbus Day

make the touring world
focus on London's goo-
dies, of which there are

sioned in 1942... At the
same time he'd commis
sioned Copland, he also
had Jerome Kern and
Virgil Thomson do “great
Americans”; they chose
respectively Mark Twain
and Fiorello LaGuardia;
Kern's. Twain compo:
tion, though performed,
didn’t meet as much per-
manent approval as Cop-
land's, we've never heard
Thomson's symphonic s:
lute to the Little Flower.

A Gershwin's “Porgy and
Bess” orchestration came
through splendidly, its
Solists two fine young
singe Lenoa Mitchell
and Donnie Ray Albert. It
Was an evening of major
league artistry, Zubin
Mehta always a stimulat-
ing conductor with a mea-
sure of great proficiency
and serious results,

