’ The Philharmonic Society at. its eighth
| and last pair of concerts next Friday after:
noon and Saturday night will add Strauss
to a list of conductors that has in one season
included Edouard Colonne of Paris, Gustav
Kogel of Frankfort—this man twice—Henry
Wood of London, Victor Herbert—who to-
tight plays his last in Pittsburg—Feliz
Veingartner of Munich and Berlin, and

asili I. Safonoff of Moscow. A great year

ey have made of it. The final programme ides

U include Mozart’s ‘‘Jupiter’’ symphony, |

- auss’s ‘‘Feuersnoth” scene and. ‘Death

| Apotheosis,” and some Strauss songst
Bante ee

&

The eighth and last public rehearsal and
‘concert of the Philharmonic Society will
be given cn Friday afternoon (March 25)
and Saturdav evening, (March 26.) Richard
Strauss will be the conductor, and for the
Tirst time in New. Yerk he will direct an
important orchestral work not of his-own
composition. The opening number of his
programme will pe Mozart’s Symphony in
C major, ‘‘ Jupiter.’’ Inside of six weeks
in the Summer of 1788 Mozart wrote his
three greatest symphonies, those in B flat,
minor, and -C major, Of all his many.
mphonies, these three are the only ones
which cant be said to be. familiar to the
public, or even to ‘musicians, though of
late efforts have been made to restore
some of the other symphonies to the active
list.. In the catalogue of his works which
Mozart kept after the year 1784, the first
of these symphonies is entered under date
of June 25, the second under July 25, and
the. third: under Aug. 10. Critics and an-
alysts have all but exhausted their vocab-
ularies in their efforts to do justice to this
masterplece of .the imagination and learn-
ing. Herman Kretzschmar said: “ In ‘many

matic SWeep, no other one unites such -
wealth of really. golden ideas with such
unity cf character and harmony of repre-
sentation. Something of the antique aie
in it; a lofty.joyousness and a sense
beauty Senden ennobles even its wildest
outbursts of merriment.’’

Grove declares that ‘the sobriquet
* Jupiter,’ which. has been bestowed on this
l1-expresses the estate of.
ration as to the osition
1m, lofty, Godlike: bernie it
ee world of instrumental
: piter’’ symphony. was

Philharmonic SINS on Jan. 13, 1844;
the, jJast time on Feb. 14, 1902.
I ‘he other | eneneatear numbers - ‘selected
- ‘Strauss will be: -the short’ love scene
om. his opera, ‘‘ Feuersnot,”’ and his: tone
ae und Verklaerung,.’’
1 Parad , will be Mr. David. Bispham.
He will 8 g Strauss’s “ Hym and.
| com men a group Sirausas
4 most ; characteristic | BONER: ies Sachs cht,”
“ Liebeshymn inet iia Stelnklopters,”
ith the composer at. ae pian af

“TLAST PHILHARMONIC CONCERT.

respects it may be considered Mozart’s |
greatest achievement in the symphonic !
field,’ and. it. constitutes one of the most |
‘beautiful monuments in existence to his
free, strong, and opulent intellect. No other |
symphony. of ‘Mozart’s has this broad the- |

performed for the Unest time in Ucaperied, by |

oP oot Ss. ‘Morgentied.” ”? with - orchestral ac- |

The eighth and last public rehéarsal end concent

' of the Philharmonic Society will be given on t

| Friday afternoon and next Saturday evening.
Richard Strauss will be the conductor, and for the
first time in. New-York he will. direct an important
orchestral work not of. this own composition. The
opening number of the programme he has arrranged
will be Mozart’s symphony in C major “Jupiter.”
Inside of six weeks, In the summer of 1788, Mozart |

wrote his three greatest symphonies, those in

flat, G@ minor and © major, Of his. many symphonies
these: three are the ones familiar to the public,

‘though of late efforts have been made to restore

some of the other symphonies to the active list.

i In the catalogue of his works, which Mozart kept
after the year 1784, the first of these symphonies

is entered under date of June 25, the second under
July 25 and the third under August 10.
Critics and analysts have all but exhausted their.
vocabularies in their efforts to do justice to this.
masterpiece of imagination and learning. Her-
man Kretzschmar said: ‘In many respects it may |

be considered Mozart's greatest achlevement in the | _

symphonic fleld, and it constitutes one of the most |

beautiful monuments in existence to his free, strong

and opulent intellect. other symphony o
Mozart’s has this broad thematic sweep; no other
one unites such wealth of really golden ideas with
such unity of character and harmony of repre-

ie sentation. Something of the antique lives in it.

a lofty joyousness and a sense of beauty which -

éennobles even its wildest outbursts of merriment.”
Grove declares that ‘‘the sobriquet ‘Jupiter’ which

-has been bestowed on this noble work, well ~~

presses the estimate of a former generation as

the position which, in its calm, lofty, Godlee

beauty, | it held in the then mene of. eee

music.” ‘The ‘Jupiter’ symphony was perform

for the first time in America an ‘the Philharmonic

The other orchestral numbers selected by Strauss

wing Strauss’s ‘‘Hymnus” and “Pilger’s Morgen-
ed’? with orchestral A coonipe: animent, enh

Society on January 13, 1844; the last time on Feb-
[Peary 3.

will be the short love scene from his o era.)
ae * and his tone poem “Tod and Verk- | _

ae “soloist will be David Bispham, He will |

See
of Strauss’s most characteristic songs, ‘“Sehnsucht,”.
Bec eg and ‘“‘Lied des Steinktopfers," ‘with
1 composer at. the piano. oe Sigaett

+ NOTES OF MUSIC EVENTS.

The final concerts of the Philharmonic socletps
series will take place at Carnegie Hall on Friday
afternoon and Saturday evening next. The con- |
ductor will be Richard Strauss, who will direct |
Mozart’s “Jupiter” symphony, the love scene from
“Feuersnoth” and “Tod und Verklaerung.” David |
Bispham will sing Strauss songs both with orchestra |
and piano.

At the last symphony concert for young people,
In Carnegie Hall, next Saturday afternoon, Lillian
Blauvelt will sing Micaela’s air from “Carmen,”
the jewel song from “Faust” and “Elsa’s Dream”
from “Lohengrin.” Edward Johnson will sing
“Celeste Aida” and “Siegmund’s Love Song.” The
orchestra wil®play the march from “Aida,” the
{+ “Carmen” suite, the prelude to “Lohengrin” and
ee of the Valkyries.”

“David Kultny! will give a violin recital at Carnegie |
Lyceum on Wednesday evening. |

The Kaltenborn Quartet will give the third of |
its series of chamber music concerts at Mendelssohn
Hall on Thursday evening. The programme will
consist of Mozart’s D major quartet, Riot&rd-

Strauss’s sonata for piano and ’cello, oe and

| Schubert’s “Forellen” quintet. Leopold inkler,
pianist, and August Kalkhot, double Wass, will
‘assist the quartet. faaon

| tseene from the opera “Feursnot”’ and‘ the
tone poem ‘Tod und Verklarung,’’ repre- |

_ |j8uch a delicate instruméat for measuring

_ (jclosing season. has. bee en, ‘it .is:said, the

ae at
ie SY, for eeroitiey t the plan of: importing “star? |
sone will be ‘pursued again next sea-

{will sing Srauss’s “Hymnus” and “Pil-

. 7 ment, and a group of Strauss’s.

Richard. Strauss: will conduct also the,
eighth and last public rehearsal and con-!

foee of the Philharmonic Society in Carne-
|gie Hall on Friday and Saturday, the 25th
jand 26th... For the first time during his
jStay in New York there’ will be oppor-
| ugly to prenounce judgment upon him
as a conductor of other than his own com

positions, This will be offered in Mozart’s
‘Jupiter’ Symphony, | which, « with the

sent the ‘“‘weight” of the programme.
\jLhere will be heard also, with orchestra
\ accompaniment, his two songs ‘“Aymnus”’
f and * ‘Morgenlied,” sung by’ Mr. Bispham.
.1fhe Philharmonic: Society-has shown itsolf

the force, of ‘conductorship that there is a
hatural curiosity to sée what it will reg-
ister under the influence of -Strauss. Phe

timost successful artistic ally and financial-
‘ly which the society has éver had. In all

|

4

The eighth and iast public rehearsal
and concert of the Philharmonic Society

_ | will take place next Hriday afternoon '

and Saturday evening. Richard Strauss |
will conduct, and for the first time in |
New Yorkghe. will direct an important |
orchestral work ° not of his ewan apne,
sition.

The opening number will be Mozart’$-
Symphony in © major “Jupiter.”. The
other orchestral Sumner selected by
Strauss will be the short love scetie from
his: opera *“Feuersnot,”’ and his tone-!
/Poem_ “Tod und Werklaerung.” Steere
‘The soloist will be David Bi ispham, He

]
|
{|

gers Morgenlicd’” with orchestral ac-

most characteristic songs, “Sehnstcht,” |
|“Liebesh'vmnus’” - and “Steinklopfers,”
}-Wwith the “ser at ee piano. :

eet

DINNER FOR DR. RICHARD STRAUSS, q
The Liederkranz gave a gue in honor of ‘Dr.

Richard Strauss last night,

“in order to recognize |

German enterprise and German music,”” as one. of
the club members put it. Oscar B. Weber, Chane ‘
man of the elub’s music committee, © esided, There }

was informal Speechmaking, conve:
Sentiment as the large electric
which hung over Dr, Strauss’s head,

ng: the same.
“Wilkommen’” '
After the.

dinner there was music, all written b et

3 y Strauss, by |

Herbert VED Eta oon, se0lie Gallico, David lane
mee f “p

am, Rie
am Lavin, ‘Carl: Schlegel |
oruses of the

old, of Philharmonte: Will.
fa the male and mixed |

nard Aldrich, H, a. iy

end dix, oR. Goldma

