—— === =
Even’g Post/
New York
State N.Y

! . The Philharmonic Society at its eighth
| and last pair of concerts next Friday after
‘noon and Saturday night will add Strauss
to a list of conductors that haa in one season
included Edouard Colonne of Paris, Gustav
Kogel of Frankfort—this man twice—Henry
Wood of London, Victor Herbert—who to-
right plays his last in Pittsburg—Felix
Veingartner of Munich and Berlin, and
asili I. Safonoff of Moscow. A great year
ey have made of it. ‘The final programme
Ul include Mozart's “Jupiter” symphony,
auss’s ‘‘Feuersnoth” scene and “Death
Apotheosis,” and some Strauss songs!
David Bispham. 2

oa

PLAST PHILHARMONIC CONCERT.

‘The cighth and last public rehearsal and
concert of the PhiJharmonie Society will
be given cn Friday afternoon (March 25)
and Saturdav evening, (March 26.) Richard
Strauss will be the conductor, and for the
tirst time in New York he will direct an
important orchestral work not of his own
composition. The opening number of his
programme will be Mozart's Symphony in
€ major, “Jupiter.” Inside of six weeks
in the Summer of 1788 Mozart wrote his
three greatest symphonies, those in B flat,
minor, and C m&jor, Of all his many
phonies, these three are the only ones
which cam be said to be familiar to the
public, or even to ‘musicians, though of
late efforts have been made to restore
some of the other symphonies to the active
Ust. In the catalogue of his works which
Mozart kept after the year 1784, the first
of these symphonies is entered under date
of June 25, the second under July 25, and
the third under Aug. 10. Critics and an-
alysts have all but exhausted their vocab
ularles in their efforts to do justice to this
masterplece of the imagination and learn-
ing. Herman Kretzschmar said: “ In‘many
respects it may be considered Mozart's
greatest achievement in the symphonic
field, and it constitutes one of the most
‘beautiful monuments in existence to his
free, strong, and opulent intellect. No other

symphony of Mozart's has this broad the-
malic Sweep, no other one unites such
wealth of really. golden ideas with such
unity cf character and harmony of repre-
sentation, Something of the antique lives
in it; a lofty joyousness and a sense of
beauty which ‘ennobles even its wildest
outbursts of merrimen’ ‘

Grove | declares “the sobriquet
‘Jupiter,’ which has been bestowed on, this
noble work, well expresses the estimate of
a former generation as to the position
which, in {ts calm, lofty, Godlike beauty, it
held in the then world of instrumental
‘ music," ‘The “Jupiter”? symphony was
| performed for the first time in America by
the Philharmonic Society on Jan, 13, 1844;
the last time on Feb. 14, 1903,

‘The other orchestral ‘numbers ‘selected
by. Strauss will be the short love scene
from his opera, “ Feuersnot,” and his tone
poem, “Tod und Verklaerung.”

‘The soloist will be Mr. David Bispham,
oe will sing Strau: Hymnus” and.
“Pilger's Morgenlied,” with orchestral ac-
companiment, and-a group of Strauss’s
most characteristic songs,‘ Sehnsucht,””
“Liebeshymnus,” and“ Steinklopfers,””

“the composer at the piano. “

if

State NY

Paper Tribune
ity - New York
in State NY
=

‘The eighth and last public rehéarsal and cone!
of the Philharmonic Society will be given on next
Friday afternoon and next Saturday evening.
Richard Strauss will be the conductor, and for the
first time in New-York he will direct an important
orchestral work not of his own composition. ‘The
opening number of the programme he has arrranged
will be Mozart's symphony in C major “Jupiter.”
Inside of six weeks, in the summer of 1788, Mozart
wrote his three greatest symphonies, those in U
flat, G minor and C major, Of his many symphonies
these three are the ones familiar to the public,
though of late efforts have been made to restore
some of the other symphonies to the active list.
In the catalogue of his works, which Mozart kept
after the year 178, thé first of these symphonies
is entered under date of June 25, the second under
July 25 and the third under August 10. fs

Critics and analysts have all but exhausted their
vocabularies in their efforts to do justice to this
masterpiece of imagination and learning. Her-
man Kretzschmar said: ‘In many respects {t may
be considered Mozart's greatest achievement in the |
symphonic field, and it constitutes one of the most |
beautiful monuments in existence to his free, stron;
and opulent intellect. No other symphony oi
Mozart's has this broad thematic sweep; no other
one unites such wealth of really golden ideas with
such unity of character and harmony of repre-
sentation, Something of the antique Mves in tt;
a lofty joyousness and a sense of beauty which
ennobles even its wildest outbursts of merriment.”

Grove declares that “the sobriquet ‘Jupiter’ which
has been bestowed on this noble work, well ex-
presses the estimate of a former generation as to
the position which, in its calm, lofty, God-lke

y, it held in the then world of instrumental
‘The ‘Jupiter symphony was performed ,
for the first time in America by the Philharmonic
Society on January 13, 1844; the last time on Feb-
ruary 14, 1902,

‘The other orchestral numbers selected by Strauss
-will be the short love scene from his opera
“Feuersnot,” and his tone poem “Tod and Verk-
lérung.”

‘Ther solotst_ will be Davia Bispham. He will
yging Strauss's ‘““Hymnus” and ‘Pilger's Morgen-
‘Ned’ with orchestral accompaniment, and a grou
if Strauss’s most characteristic songs, “Sehnsucht,
“Liebeshymnus” and “Lied des Steinklopters,”” witt
the comporer at the piano. eras

Pep 4

City New York

Date State NY

‘ NOTES OF MUSIO EVENTS.

The final concerts of the Philharmonic Socks
serles will take place at Carnegie Hall on Friday
afternoon and Saturday evening next. The con-
ductor will be Richard Strauss, who will direct
Mozart's “Juplter” symphony, the.love scene from
“Feuersnoth" and “Tod und Verklaerung.” David
Bispham will sing Strauss songs both with orchestra
and plano.

At the last symphony concert for young people,
In Camegie Hall, next Saturday afternoon, Lillian
Blauvelt will sing Micaela’s air from “Carmen,”
the jewel song from “Faust” and “Elsa's Dream” |

[ Paper _ LP) Sfx

City New York
Date State NY

Wd Strauss will conduct also the
jelghth and last public rehearsal and cone
cert of the Philharmonic Society in Carne-
gie Hall on Friday and Saturday, the 25th
jand 26th, For the first time during his
|stay in New York there will be oppor-
|tunity to pronounce judgment upon him
a conductor of other than his own com=

ons, This will be offered in Mozart's
ter’ Symphony, which, with. the
ne from the opera’ “Weursnot” and the
|tone poem ‘Pod und Verklirung,” repr
jsent the “weight” of the. programm
jThere will be heard also, with orchestra

jaccompaniment, his two songs ““Hymmnui
jand “Morgenlied,” sung by Mr, Bispham,
\‘Che Philharmonie Society has shown itself
|such a delicate instrument for measuring
the force.of conductorship that there is a
atural curiosit, what it will reg-
er under th e of Strau ne

closing

on has. been, it is sai
epee t is said, the

sful artistically and financial.
iy wl the society has éver had. In all
‘\probability the plan of importing “star?
figaraun tors will be pursued again next sea-

: + =
Paper Com’] A dvertiser
City New York

Date Se State NY

| The eighth and last public rehearsal |
and concert of the Philharmonic Society
will take place next Friday afternoon
|and Saturday evening. Richard Strauss |
will conduct, and for the first time inj
New Yorkghe will direct an important |
orchestral work ‘not of his ewn compo-|
sition.

The opening number will be Mozart's
symphony in © majon ‘“Jupit The
other orchestral numbers selected by
Strauss will be the short love scetie from |
his. opera, “Feuersnot,” and bis tone-!
Poem “Lod und Verklacrung.” >> =~

‘The soloist will he David Bispham, He}
will sing Sranss’s “Hymnus” and “Pil-
gers Morgenlied” with orchestral ac-
companiment, and a group of Strauss’s |
most characteristic songs, “Sehnsucht,” |
“Liebesh¥mmus” “and “Steinklopfers,” |
with the “ser ab the piano. |

| pct i

Paper Tribune
New York

Date State

|| Stauss’s sonata for plano and ‘cello, opus’, and

from “Lohengrin.” Edward Johnson will sing
“Celeste Aida” and “Siegmund’'s Love Song.” The
orchestra wiN@play the march from “Alda,” the
armen” sulte, the prelude to “Lohengrin” and
1 “Ride of the Valsyries.”

avid Kullny! will give a violin recttal at Carnegie
Lyceum on Wednesday evening.

The Kaltenborn Quartet will give the third of
its series of chamber music concerts at Mendelssohn |
Hall on Thursday evening. The programme will
consist of Mozart's D major quartet, Riottara.!

Schubert's “Forelien” quintet. Leopold AWinkler,
nist, and August Kallshof, double Yass, wil |
ist the quartet. é

DINNER FOR DR. RICHARD STRAUSS, -

‘The Liederkranz gave a dinner in honor of Dr,
Richard Strauss last night, “in order to recognize
German enterprise and German music,” as one of

the club members put ft. Oscar B. Weber, chair-
man of the club’s music committee, osided. There

| ‘was informal speechmaking, conve; Ing. the same
| sentiment as the large electric“ Wilkommen”
which hung over Dr, Strauss’s head. After the
dinner there was music, all written by Strauss, by
Herbert Withrspoon, Paolo. Gallico, Davia Bispe

| Pam, Richar@Amold, of the Phitnarmonic: Wil.

fam ‘Lavin, Carl Schl
\_ choruses of the Lisderkranz 2 Male And’ mixed
ard Aldrich, H.

Among those present

See, De Baruch, Max Bendix, R. Goldmar! a

nd, F. Grumbacher, a Bi lin“

Ca achmiund, bacher, a Berlin “e
FRB \ot ang try,” who is visiting this coun; &

at

{

+ Parker, of Yale; Otto von Schret
| ine ‘kal, Henry “Wolfsoha and Herman #iang
1)
‘

4
: 4
Pe =
